README.md, before:

SportBukkit
===========

CraftBukkit modifications and Bukkit API additions that fix bugs, add new features, and improve the quality of life

File Structure
--------------

SportBukkit is a fork of CraftBukkit, starting from the submodules in the `base` folder.
The differences between CraftBukkit and SportBukkit are represented by the sequential patches in the `Bukkit` and `CraftBukkit` folders.
Conceptually, these differences are divided into *fixes* and *features*.

Fixes are relatively small and have the potential to change or go away with future upstream changes.
Every patch except the final one in each list contains a fix.

Feature changes are improvements and extensions to the Bukkit API, intended to be permanent.
These are contained entirely in a single patch at the end of each sequence, called simply "SportBukkit".

For readability purposes, a copy of the final *patched* SportBukkit source code is stored in the `snapshot` folder.
This code is updated automatically by scripts, and should not be manually edited or compiled.


Requirements
------------

To build SportBukkit, the following will need to be installed and available from your shell:

* [JDK 8](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jdk8-downloads-2133151.html) version 121 or later (older versions *might* work, but some are known not to)
* [Git](https://git-scm.com)
* [Maven](https://maven.apache.org)
* [Ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org/) version 2.1 or later

Currently, the only known way to build on Windows is with [WSL](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/wsl/).
Other approaches run into problems with wildcard expansion.
There are plans to fix this so that SportBukkit can at least be built with any Windows version of Bash,
and possibly just the plain Windows shell.


How To
------

See all available tasks: `rake -T`

Build everything: `rake`
*The SportBukkit binary will be located in build/CraftBukkit/target*

Generate patched SportBukkit source code: `rake apply`
*Generated source will be in build/Bukkit and build/CraftBukkit*

Compile SportBukkit from source: `rake compile`

Rebuild SportBukkit patches from source: `rake generate`

Remove all intermediate files: `rake clean`


Rebasing
--------

This is roughly the process used to rebase SportBukkit to an updated upstream CraftBukkit.

* Create a branch of this repo called `rebase-(version)` e.g. `rebase-1.2.3`.
* Checkout the `upstream` branch of `build/Bukkit` and `build/CraftBukkit` and ensure they have clean work trees.
* Delete the `work` folder.
* Reset the submodules `builddata`, `base/Bukkit`, and `base/CraftBukkit` to the latest upstream master.
* In `version.rb`, update `NMS_VERSION` and `NMS_MD5` to the latest values (running `rake deobf` with the wrong MD5 will show you the right one).
* Run `rake deobf`, `rake decompile`, and `rake craftbukkit`, in that order. These should all run without any conflicts.
* At this stage, you have the latest CraftBukkit present and are ready to start the actual rebasing.
  This is a good time to create an initial commit on the rebase branch, with just the submodule and `version.rb` changes.
* Run `rake apply`. This will attempt to apply the SportBukkit patches in the `Bukkit` and `CraftBukkit` folders to the new CraftBukkit.
  Assuming there have been upstream changes, many of these patches will fail and you will need to resolve the conflicts.
* For each conflict, one of the repos `build/Bukkit` or `build/CraftBukkit` will be in a `git am` session, waiting on conflict resolution.
  Use the standard git merge process to resolve the conflict, and type `git am --continue` to continue applying patches.
* Along the way, you can run `rake generate` to capture your progress in the patch files.
* When you get to the end of the Bukkit patches, rebuild them and then run `rake apply` again to continue with the CraftBukkit patches.
* The first CraftBukkit patch is strictly for importing NMS files verbatim. To recreate this patch, just copy the latest NMS version of each file
  in the patch from `work/nms-src` to `build/CraftBukkit/src/main/java`. This patch should *always* be updated, even if there are no merge conflicts.
* The second CraftBukkit patch is strictly for fixing decompile errors. This patch should only make minimal changes to the files in the first patch to make them compile.

Commit message:

Update misleading readme
Update readme to remove the no longer true statement that it can't be built on windows without the WSL

README.md, after:

SportBukkit
===========

CraftBukkit modifications and Bukkit API additions that fix bugs, add new features, and improve the quality of life

File Structure
--------------

SportBukkit is a fork of CraftBukkit, starting from the submodules in the `base` folder.
The differences between CraftBukkit and SportBukkit are represented by the sequential patches in the `Bukkit` and `CraftBukkit` folders.
Conceptually, these differences are divided into *fixes* and *features*.

Fixes are relatively small and have the potential to change or go away with future upstream changes.
Every patch except the final one in each list contains a fix.

Feature changes are improvements and extensions to the Bukkit API, intended to be permanent.
These are contained entirely in a single patch at the end of each sequence, called simply "SportBukkit".

For readability purposes, a copy of the final *patched* SportBukkit source code is stored in the `snapshot` folder.
This code is updated automatically by scripts, and should not be manually edited or compiled.


Requirements
------------

To build SportBukkit, the following will need to be installed and available from your shell:

* [JDK 8](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jdk8-downloads-2133151.html) version 121 or later (older versions *might* work, but some are known not to)
* [Git](https://git-scm.com)
* [Maven](https://maven.apache.org)
* [Ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org/) version 2.1 or later

To build on Windows you'll need to use the git bash console.

How To
------

See all available tasks: `rake -T`

Build everything: `rake`
*The SportBukkit binary will be located in build/CraftBukkit/target*

Generate patched SportBukkit source code: `rake apply`
*Generated source will be in build/Bukkit and build/CraftBukkit*

Compile SportBukkit from source: `rake compile`

Rebuild SportBukkit patches from source: `rake generate`

Remove all intermediate files: `rake clean`


Rebasing
--------

This is roughly the process used to rebase SportBukkit to an updated upstream CraftBukkit.

* Create a branch of this repo called `rebase-(version)` e.g. `rebase-1.2.3`.
* Checkout the `upstream` branch of `build/Bukkit` and `build/CraftBukkit` and ensure they have clean work trees.
* Delete the `work` folder.
* Reset the submodules `builddata`, `base/Bukkit`, and `base/CraftBukkit` to the latest upstream master.
* In `version.rb`, update `NMS_VERSION` and `NMS_MD5` to the latest values (running `rake deobf` with the wrong MD5 will show you the right one).
* Run `rake deobf`, `rake decompile`, and `rake craftbukkit`, in that order. These should all run without any conflicts.
* At this stage, you have the latest CraftBukkit present and are ready to start the actual rebasing.
  This is a good time to create an initial commit on the rebase branch, with just the submodule and `version.rb` changes.
* Run `rake apply`. This will attempt to apply the SportBukkit patches in the `Bukkit` and `CraftBukkit` folders to the new CraftBukkit.
  Assuming there have been upstream changes, many of these patches will fail and you will need to resolve the conflicts.
* For each conflict, one of the repos `build/Bukkit` or `build/CraftBukkit` will be in a `git am` session, waiting on conflict resolution.
  Use the standard git merge process to resolve the conflict, and type `git am --continue` to continue applying patches.
* Along the way, you can run `rake generate` to capture your progress in the patch files.
* When you get to the end of the Bukkit patches, rebuild them and then run `rake apply` again to continue with the CraftBukkit patches.
* The first CraftBukkit patch is strictly for importing NMS files verbatim. To recreate this patch, just copy the latest NMS version of each file
  in the patch from `work/nms-src` to `build/CraftBukkit/src/main/java`. This patch should *always* be updated, even if there are no merge conflicts.
* The second CraftBukkit patch is strictly for fixing decompile errors. This patch should only make minimal changes to the files in the first patch to make them compile.
